Good morning everyone,
this is session 318,
Using Xcode for Java Development.
Please welcome Ted Jucevic,
Java Engineer.
Let's see, where is that clicker?
There it is.
So,
welcome to Xcode for Java Development.
Wednesday morning,
halfway through the week,
ready to get going.
So, why are you here?
Basically,
if you do Java development on Mac OS X,
and you want to learn more
about the tools that we provide,
if you want to know how Xcode
can help you do Java development,
and if you want to know what's
new in Xcode for Java development.
Those are the questions that we're going
to try and address at this session.
So, more specifically,
what are we going to talk about?
Well, as you know, I'm going
There's been lots of Xcode updates.
We're going to talk
about code completion,
which is something new
for Java and Xcode.
We're also including Ant now
with your Xcode distributions,
and so we're going to be
kind of going into that.
It's a direction we're moving in.
There's an application developer preview
that will allow you to do a lot of
J2EE development on your client machine.
We're going to talk briefly about that,
and then of course the Java 142 update.
We're also going to go into detail
about actually doing builds with Xcode.
and David And then also debugging and
then finalize with our 1.5 and talk
about what you need to do to actually
do development with that in Xcode
because it's not completely there yet
but it's very easy to get working.
So what is Xcode?
Actually this all should just be review.
By this point in the week
you don't know what Xcode is.
Well, we'll show it to you.
So C++, C, Objective-C, AppleScript,
Java, IDE, full Java debugger,
GDB integration, AppleScript debugger,
included with every Mac OS X.
Updates available, of course,
from connect.apple.com.
We are also introducing
previews for this week:
1.5 and 2.0.
The 1.5 is for Panther,
the 2.0 is for Tiger.
Dave Ewings will actually
go into a little bit of the
differences a little bit later on.
And like I said earlier,
those are both available
from connect.apple.com.
So at this point,
let me bring up Dave Ewing and give
him to show you a demo of CodeSense.
Here's Dave Ewing.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So, Codesense actually is one of the
big things new in Xcode this year.
We've had Codesense in some
form for quite some time.
The best support, of course,
has been in Objective-C and C++,
but now we're bringing
some new stuff along.
To you Java developers.
So CodeSense is actually
a group of technologies.
It's used for class browsing.
We have a Symbol smart
group in the main window.
There's a number of
navigation capabilities that
are provided by CodeSense.
And of course,
new is code completion for Java.
So CodeSense is based on indexing.
Now, indexing has gotten a bad rap with
Xcode for Java for a little while here.
We've improved the speed quite a bit.
Indexing the system JDK classes is about
10 times faster than it was in Xcode 1.2,
so you'll definitely notice
that speed difference.
And in fact, indexing of source files
happens on another thread,
not on the main thread,
so it won't get in your way
while you're editing your files.
It's also important to know that
CodeSense is something that's used by the
Java portions of Xcode for the debugger
and also for the Jam-based build system.
The debugger uses it so that it can
actually get the correspondence between
class files that are running and the
source files that you're editing.
And the build system uses it to
get dependency information so that
it can speed up your build times.
So code completion,
I think if you guys are Java developers,
you've seen code completion
on a number of IDEs.
It allows you to automatically suggest
a completion based on the current
context that you're editing in.
In Xcode, you can bring it up on demand,
or you can have it automatically come up.
You can have it limit the list
that comes up to only those that
match what you've typed so far.
That's something that's a little
different from other IDE implementations,
something that I personally
like quite a bit.
And when you insert method calls,
it'll insert placeholder strings
for each of the arguments.
So as I said, the Java support for
code completion is new.
We actually had some completion there in,
well, 1.1 and 1.2,
but it was based on only the
words in the current file,
so a little helpful,
not quite what you're used to.
The preview is here at the
conference in both Xcode 1.5 and 2.0.
There are some known limitations.
It's not done yet.
It's definitely a preview.
It's actually a little bit
more stable in the 1.5 release
than it is in the 2.0 release,
just because everything around
it is a little more stable.
So with that,
we still want to know what you like
and what you don't like about it.
You're certainly welcome to tell
us about some of the limitations
you see while using it,
although I swear we do
know about some of them.
It's not a surprise.
We know we're not done.
With that, I'm going to do a little
demonstration of CodeSense.
So let's bring up Xcode here.
And just create a new swing application.
Let's see, new project.
And there we go.
Okay, there's one issue here.
This is Xcode 1.2.
So Ted,
did you know that Xcode 1.2 is on there?
Can we switch over to this machine?
I'll do a demo on Tiger.
It's a little less stable here,
which is why I wanted
to do it on Panther,
but we'll go ahead and bring
up Xcode and show this here.
So, new project.
Yeah, can you switch demo machines,
please?
Over to the demo one here?
Sorry to change my mind on you.
Okay, so we have a new project here.
Well, that's good.
At least you guys can see it.
So, there's the groups and file
list over here on the left,
stuff you've seen before,
and a list of what's selected shows
up on the right in the detail view.
The first thing I want to show you
is the project symbols smart group.
So a smart group is something
in Xcode that gets its contents
dynamically from the project itself.
In this case,
the project symbol smart group
shows you the symbols that have
been indexed in your project.
Only the stuff in your project,
it doesn't show anything that's
brought in from frameworks
or from the system JDK.
Okay, so we can go ahead and
bring up an editor here,
and you can click around on it,
and of course take you to the
location you're looking for.
And you can filter.
So you can say, "Oh,
let's search for any symbol that
has the word 'about' in it." And it
shows you that all right away.
Another thing in Xcode,
is that you can command-double-click
on words in your file to
quickly navigate between them.
Now I command-double-clicked there,
and of course there are quite a few
classes that implement set-resizable.
So let's go ahead to the
dialog version of that.
So this is something also
that's new in Xcode 1.5 and 2.0.
We have the system
classes indexed for you,
but we wouldn't show you
any of their contents.
So here we're showing you
a dump of the class file,
and you can move around it.
It only shows you essentially the APIs.
It doesn't show you a dump
of the bytecode or decompile.
But it does give you an
idea of what APIs are there.
Okay, with that,
let's go ahead and bring up the
class browser for this project.
It takes a second.
There's actually quite a
lot of classes in here,
as you guys know.
What's that?
Oh, there we go.
Sorry about that.
So it's got all the JDK classes in here,
and you can click around between them.
You can of course limit
what you're looking at.
So I only care about the
classes in this project.
I'm going to close this and then
option click on the twisty triangle,
and it shows all the classes in
your project in the hierarchy.
One nice thing, you can also look at all
the classes in a flat view.
This of course takes a second.
I forget how many thousands
of classes there are here,
but there's many, many, many.
And if we were to click on one of those
and wanted to see where it appeared
in the hierarchy—I don't know if this
is a particularly interesting one that
I've clicked on—one thing you can do
is just switch back to the hierarchy
view and it'll keep that selected.
It's down there at the bottom.
[Transcript missing]
Let's go ahead and close
up the class browser.
Well,
I'm going to do a little editing here,
but what I want to do—this is
a standard Swing application.
Go ahead and run it, just to show,
you know,
it brings up the standard stuff.
It's got a preference box,
which is kind of boring.
I'm going to change the
preference box a little,
and I'll show you code
completion while I'm doing that.
Let's just see what symbols
have to do with preferences,
and they come up.
The first thing I'll do is preferences
is the method in the application
that brings up the preferences box,
and I want to tell it to change its font.
I'm going to say "prefs
And if you hit option escape,
it'll bring up a list for
you of what's available.
And it turns out that it knows about
the instance variable prefs there,
which is of type prefpane.
Go ahead and hit tab to complete that.
How do you use that zoom feature?
Actually, you know what,
I can do something almost as good.
Let's go ahead and make
that a little bit bigger.
And the text size—boy, that is small,
isn't it?
Is that a little better?
Yeah, sorry about that.
Okay, so where was I?
Preferences.
Okay, and actually while I do this,
let's go ahead into the preferences and
show you quickly under the navigation,
there's options to automatically suggest.
I'm going to turn on the
automatically suggest option here.
since that's actually the way
I work and I prefer it that way.
So as you start to type,
it'll underline the text
that you've typed in.
It says,
"I know that there's something that
can be completed." And the underline
is that clue that there's something
there and that it's ambiguous.
It doesn't know what is next.
But if I type a little bit more, it says,
"Oh, the only symbol that's next that
has an F after it also has an O."
And you can bring up the list,
of course, and see.
So there's set focusable and
quite a few other routines there.
But I'm going to do a set font.
And if I hit tab and complete it,
it inserts a little placeholder there
that tells you the type of the argument.
So I also know that there's--.
A font instance variable there, too.
And let's go ahead into
the preference pane itself,
and we need to add a new method.
It turns out if you just
set the font on the pane,
that won't affect the text inside it,
so we need to go in there too.
So we'll just click on one of those
and start adding a new method there.
So it knows public and
just continue on here.
We'll add set font and type font and
just give it an argument named F.
And for this, we'll call the super
class version of set font.
Let's go ahead and—oh,
Wow, see this is why I didn't
want to do it on Tiger.
So there is an issue here, unfortunately.
[Transcript missing]
Let's see,
talk about one more thing in Xcode.
Showing that demo is not that amazing.
I mean, it does actually set the
preferences and change the style.
So the last thing I want to tell you
about is index templates in Xcode.
In order to speed up indexing
even more—so we've made indexing
ten times faster for indexing
your system class files—well,
you can actually get rid of the
time to index that all together,
and that's done using a
feature called index templates.
And they're not set up for
you by default on the machine,
but they are documented in there.
It's very easy to do.
It's just running one
command line application that
will set them up for you.
And the instructions for doing
that are down inside developer.
Extras, Xcode templates.
Oh, it's Tiger, that's right.
Were you going to say use Spotlight?
Anyhow, so they're inside Xcode
index templates here.
Yeah, we're not showing off spotlight,
right?
And these instructions
tell you how to set it up.
It's very easy.
It takes a couple of minutes
for it to index everything.
It sets up index templates
not just for Java,
but also for Cocoa project
types and Carbon project types.
So what that does is that
when you create a new project,
it'll instantly index
all of the system files.
You don't have to do it every
time you create a new project.
And when you rebuild your index,
if you were to do that,
which you shouldn't need to do nearly
as much as you did in the past,
then that is sped up quite a bit, too.
Okay, with that,
I think we'll bring it back to Ted here.
Thank you very much, Dave.
Okay.
Ant is very important to the
Java environment and it's a
great build system for Java.
Up to this point,
we've been focusing mainly
on the Jam build system.
With the addition of Ant into
the Xcode 1.5 and 2.0,
the Xcode is a great way
to build a Java system.
We're not abandoning
the Jam stuff at all,
so you don't have to scramble
and move your stuff over.
We're just providing options.
So in addition with this Ant,
you get a bunch of templates,
an empty project, one for building a jar,
and one for building an application jar,
so one with manifest and all that.
The Ant that comes is 1.6.1,
the latest release,
and you target it using an
external build environment.
One thing to note,
we actually discovered another
issue while we were quickly
trying to get this out,
and that the 1.6.1 that we have
and we're distributing is actually
missing a few of the components.
[Transcript missing]
So,
the application developer server preview.
This includes JBoss.
It's actually the final
candidate version of it,
or the release candidate
version actually.
It includes Tomcat, xDoclet,
and also an older version of Ant.
The older version of Ant is actually
installed in a different location.
This version will be going away and
we're going to be using the new one
in the 1.6 from the Xcode install.
Maybe the templates point to the
old one because this actually
came out before our Xcode updates.
Just continue using it and at
some point you may just need to
switch your build file if you're
using one of those templates,
but it's pretty easy to do.
This is also available in the developer
tools section of connect.apple.com.
One of the things that we like to do
is do demonstration of how easy it is
to do servlets and J2EE applications.
Okay.
We're actually doing a demo of
this in building your website
on Apple computer later.
I think it's Thursday afternoon.
So the application server in Xcode,
the web modules is one of the
templates that's installed.
That's essentially a servlet.
EJB module for doing Java bean,
and of course the enterprise application.
All those templates are
included in that update.
One of the cool things about this is
that when you install this server update,
it installs in a location that's
the same location as if you're
deploying on XServe with 10 servers.
So if you build and set up everything
on your client machine using this,
you can then deploy to XServe
without having to worry about
any directory configuration
stuff or anything like that.
It's actually very easy.
Of course,
you can deploy to any platform, you know,
portable ant targets and all that.
So it's actually something
really cool to check out.
Additionally, we came out with the
1.4.2 update for Xcode.
This includes JNI headers,
stuff like that.
So if you had, like,
the 1.2 installed Xcode,
and you update to 1.4.2,
and it'll send you JNI libraries
when your building breaks,
just download this 1.4.2 update,
and you'll get all the
headers and all that.
They'll be installed
in the right location.
Of course, on Tiger, it comes with 1.4.2.
The Xcode 2.0, of course,
has all these updates.
This also includes
source files and stuff,
our sources that we can legally release,
and documentation.
So definitely get a hold of that.
So building an Xcode.
I'm not going to go into so much
the philosophy and the UI of Xcode,
but we are going to touch on at
least some of the stuff for the
Java and focus on the Java portions.
Of course,
on the left-hand side you have your
source files and stuff like that,
your products and your frameworks,
or jars.
You also have underneath
that your targets and then
of course your executables.
The Java targets,
you have the jam targets
and stuff like that.
The external targets you would
normally use for calling ant or
something like that or makefile.
And of course you have native
targets for JNI libraries.
The executables, this is where you select
your run debug configuration.
So if say you want to
debug your JNI library,
you can do that.
You can switch to GDB or if you
want to debug the Java stuff,
you can use the Java debugger.
You all do that on the
Xcode or in the executable.
Your arguments that you're passing
to your jar file or your application,
you set this all up in the executable.
And then any environment
variables that you want to set.
So if you want to pass in, you know,
a code that you want to
use in your application,
you can do
[Transcript missing]
Ant is an external target,
and that's one of the ways that Xcode
allows for extending for Java stuff.
An additional way is in the build phases.
So if you have a Jam target,
one of the things Jam does
is it calls out to external
tools and stuff like that.
So you can use either a
shell script build phase,
and often use this for like signing
files or something like that,
or a copy build phase.
I'm actually going to go
into those right here.
Shell script build phase.
This is the kind of thing when
you're doing a JNI target,
you use a Java H.
You call Java H from the
shell script build phase.
Signing JAR files,
If you have an executable or a
directory setup that you want
to set up for your end result,
the shell script build
phase is useful for that.
That's what we actually use it for,
to set up localization
files for packages.
Also,
if you have a bunch of properties files
you want to write or something like that,
and you want it to be dynamic,
you can use that in the
shell script build phase.
The copies files build phase,
this is where you want to move
things into your build results.
This is something where
if you have a JNI library,
you want to copy it into
your application bundle.
If you have, say,
one of the things that you can
do is you can call out using
runtime.exe to external tools.
So if you want to copy those
into your application bundle,
copies files build phase.
Nice thing about that is you can hide
everything within your application
bundle and not have to worry about
somebody throwing away things because
they don't realize what it is.
And then all of a sudden
your application breaks.
I'm going to give you
a quick tour of Xcode.
Let me go to the
Panther machine over here.
What I'm doing right here is,
for most of the talk,
we're actually going to focus on Ant.
But like I said,
we're not really abandoning
the Jam stuff at all.
We're just providing the options.
So what I'm going to do is show
you a little bit about some of
the Jam stuff that is in there,
currently in the 1.2
and in the 1.5 and 2.0.
Of course, this is the targets and
stuff that I talked about.
These are all the files.
There's different ways
that you can actually
View them, just double-click on them.
I know this is all pretty rudimentary.
But for some people who
haven't really used it,
this is actually important for them.
And if you want to include
a file in a target,
here's the check box for it.
So if you have it over here, you can see,
of course, the build results are
included in the target.
Double-click on the target.
It'll actually bring
up the property list.
This hasn't actually changed
that much from Project Builder.
So if you used it in there,
it's pretty much the same.
It's still in the 1.2.
The panels that are important to you
are the Java -- the compiler settings.
This is where you can select Java C,
JIKs, and stuff like that.
Set your target JVM if you
want to target something else.
The Java archive settings,
this is where you
include a manifest file.
So if for some reason—well, of course,
we all want our double-clickable
jars to be launchable.
So what you do is you put the manifest
file at the root of the project,
and then just type in the name here.
And of course, all these are properties,
so if you set something in there,
it'll show up in this list and you can
go on and configure things manually.
So if you wanted to call out to another
Java compiler or something like that,
Greg's actually going to show you that.
Peer Java Specific, down here.
These are actually the plist entries,
and these are the kind of things
that are used when you're launching
your double-clickable application.
These are the kind of
things like your properties,
if you want to add additional
properties for the Macintosh platform.
Additional JVM options,
say if you wanted to do
profiling or something like that,
you could type that in here,
set your heap size.
Set the current working directory to the
content's resources/java subdirectory.
This is, say,
if the current working directory
of the Java application is normally
just outside the executable bundle,
but you can actually set it to
internal to the executable bundle
so that when you're calling out to
external tools or something like
that or referring to property files,
they're within the actual
application bundle.
Sometimes this is just something—if for
some reason you say if you see an error,
it can't launch the—invoke the
NSJVM or something like that,
it means this was accidentally checked.
Just uncheck it.
And then over here,
that's the targets pretty
much for the Jam stuff.
This is the executable.
This is where you could
create a custom one,
but you can go in and set
your launch arguments,
things that are passed
to your application,
environment variables, like I said.
This looks a little bit
different than the 1.2.
They actually have a couple
of tabs across the top.
Let me see if I got—actually,
on this one,
I think it's the same look and feel.
I can actually show it to you.
If we switch to the other machine—can
you do that for me real quick?
Yeah, over to this other machine.
Let me just show you that real quick.
I'm on the right one.
/temp swing app.
So let's go into here.
So, looks a little bit different,
but arguments and then debugging,
this is where you actually
set the arguments.
I haven't indexed this project
so it doesn't have all that yet.
But that's essentially where
you set up all the Jam stuff.
That's kind of the stuff
that we currently provide.
We actually, if you look at the project
builder documentation,
it'll point you to it,
clear all that up for you.
But we're actually coming out with
new Xcode for Java documentation.
Soon our tech pubs people
are actively working on it.
So let's go back to the slides.
Where are we there?
So I keep hitting this again,
but Ant integration,
it's an external target.
It's the same as like a
legacy makefile target.
it's uh... were essentially
calling out to external bill tool
Some of the arguments
that you can pass to it,
the standard ones in our templates
is what I have listed here,
but you can actually pass in any
other kind of options you want.
You're calling out to an external tool.
And then in the build styles,
if you've used Xcode build
styles for something else,
you can set variables
and stuff like that.
They'll be passed on to the targets.
And then if, say,
you have some sort of property
that you want to pass in,
you can just add a dollar sign
and then whatever the value is
that you define in the build
style onto that executable line.
And that'll automatically be
passed to it when you define that.
Whenever you call out
to an external target,
there's a lot of environment
variables that we pass along.
If you look at the build settings
notes under the help menu,
this will tell you a lot
more about available options
that you can capitalize on.
So definitely check that out.
This is something that's overlooked,
but a valuable piece of information.
J2ME
We're not really promoting
J2ME on our platform,
but it's a great example of what you can
use Ant to build for on our platform.
In the DMG,
we're going to provide a sample
template for building J2ME midlets.
That will be in the disk image
available tonight for the session.
It's a custom executable, like I said,
or it's a custom executable
to run the mid-P emulator.
You can use Bluetooth to push the file
over from your laptop or desktop machine.
Thank you.
It's a Bluetooth executable.
You use Bluetooth to push it over.
When you're pushing over
a JAR file for MIDP,
you can't define any
properties in the JAD file.
But if there's any
properties that you need,
you can just define them in your
actual executable and push it over.
In MIDP, you can actually use a JAD file
to define additional properties
that would be passed in.
When you're pushing over with Bluetooth,
you can only send one file at a time.
So just define those
within your executable.
And, oh, yes, most importantly,
the emulator I'm using is actually
from Mike Powers' website.
It's mpowers.net,
and it's the midp-osx directory.
Of course,
this URL is provided in the disk image,
so don't worry about writing it down.
And actually,
we just found out today that he's going
to make available a J2ME 2.0 emulator.
As soon as that's available,
we'll make that available
or at least point you to it.
We'll get it to you somehow.
I just heard about it today,
so that's why I'm just kind
of stumbling with that.
So let's actually go over to the
Panther and let's do a quick J2ME demo.
And so let's go over
to the Panther machine.
And let me go over.
I've already installed
the template for the J2ME.
And so if you follow the directions
included in the disk image,
this will show you how
to get that in there.
And once you do that,
it'll actually show up in
Xcode as a project template.
So let me just go ahead.
Let me build that on the desktop.
Let me just call it Asteroids.
I'm a creative speller,
so I have to double check all this.
And at this point,
it's just pretty much just
a hello world application.
Let me launch X11.
The current emulator,
the midp1.0 emulator,
is an X11 executable.
So let's go ahead and just run
this real quick and show you.
It comes up.
There it is.
It's your phone on an emulator.
Go ahead and just launch.
Hello world.
Not very exciting, but proof of concept.
But next step is,
let's actually go in and
Let's see,
this should be in my home directory.
Let's get this source.
What you see over here,
let me just go into it,
is that you've got this
blue source directory.
So I'm going to go in, delete that file.
It should go ahead and delete in there.
Let's copy in these
sources from over here.
This is a GPL version of Asteroids game.
Just look on Google for Asteroids mid-P
and you should be able to find it.
The next step is the manifest.
Let me update those.
Let's just go in and copy it
in from the other directory.
The manifest in the JAD file.
Let's just copy that in.
Replace.
Now, in theory,
I should just go ahead and be able to
Bill, he's in the current template.
Let's see, Bill Cho.
Build successful,
that's always a good sign.
Went through, did the whole build here,
and we should just be able to run it.
Let's see if it actually runs.
Oh no, that was the whole world.
Let's try this again.
Oh, this demo's not going well.
But the concept is,
and what we're doing is we're actually
showing Ant building for mid-P.
And if you saw earlier in
the Java State of the Union,
it does build and everything like that,
the asteroids for Mac OS X.
But that's only a part of the story.
Let's just send this file over
actually to my Bluetooth phone.
So let me go into my home directory.
I got the asteroids, the build bin.
And let me just send this jar file over.
Let's go ahead and turn on the camera,
give it a second,
it tends to fall asleep.
There it goes.
And if any luck, there's the phone.
Notice the aspect ratio is
not completely maintained with
that piece of sample code.
That's actually
COCA component right there.
And let's go ahead and
send that file over.
That should wake up the phone.
Unable to validate device.
These demos are all
going pretty good today.
Um, but it does.
So basically what would happen
is I'd send over the file.
The phone automatically wakes up,
which is actually pretty cool to see.
And it says,
do you want to accept this file?
It doesn't just blindly accept any file.
I say yes, it downloads,
it starts the file,
and you've got mid-P running on your
phone that you built on Mac OS X.
And it's actually pretty easy.
The sample template will
be in the disk image,
and it'll be great for you to try it out.
So let's go back to the
slides and continue on.
So that was the J2ME demo.
So, one of the problems that people
have run into is building JNI on
Mac OS X isn't exactly straightforward.
Let's talk a little bit about it.
It's actually easy, once you know how.
When you're building a mid-P target,
you want the library to be a JNI target.
You want the library, the executable,
the result to have the start with lib
and then end with the extension jnilib.
And so, if say you wanted to be able to
do a system.load library foo,
you would actually name your target
libfoo and then change the executable,
the extension to be jnilib.
And so,
the JNI library would be libfoo.jnilib.
So there's two steps to do this in Xcode.
The first step,
normally what I do is I split
this into multiple targets.
The first step is actually
to build the headers,
and that's where you call
JavaH with the shell script,
and then to build the JNI library,
and that's the second target.
And then of course you have
your actual application target,
but I'm just focusing on the
JNI library at this point.
So the header target, you add,
you create a new target,
a package target, a Java package.
It's essentially a JAR file.
Add all your classes to it with the
native methods and any supporting
classes that you need to compile those.
Typically, you don't add all your classes
because if you have 100 or so classes,
then you'll end up building
all those classes many times.
You just want to include a subset.
And then add a shell script
build phase to this target.
This is essentially what you would want
to add as a shell script build phase.
We actually have JNI samples
that includes this stuff,
so you don't have to write it down.
You can get it from our
sample code website.
But essentially,
you add the JAR file to the class path,
and then Java H will,
if you pass in all the class
names with the native methods,
it'll generate all the
header files for you.
The next step is the JNI library target.
This is a BSD dynamic library.
The first thing you need to do is
to change the extension to JNI lib.
This is a build option.
You set the native build option for
wrapper_unersort_extension to JNI lib.
You do this with the custom options,
the build options,
and this will actually give you a JNI lib
extension versus a DILIB extension.
You can build C, C++, Objective-C,
anything you want into that JNI library.
Just expose C entry points
because that's what JNI expects.
Once you get your JNI library built,
the next step is actually
deploying it or...
Copy files build phase:
That is the one where you
copy the JNI library into
your Java application bundle.
Using the copy files build phase,
there's a pop-up that you can select
where in the application bundle,
and you would want to
use the Java resources.
We add that to the dial-up
search path for JNI libraries.
The Java Web Start, you would actually
want to copy that file,
or you would want to add that
file to the Web Start project,
and so that will include
the JNI library in your jar.
And so when you download the
Java Web Start application,
it will be able to find that jar for you.
And of course,
talking about JNI libraries,
there's a few more places that you
can actually install them on the
system besides the application bundle.
Of course,
anywhere in the Dylib search path,
we look for them.
Additionally, we look in the library job
extensions at the root of the system,
so if you want to install a
JNI library for the entire system,
that's the place to put it.
Or if you want to install a
JNI library just for the specific
user that's currently running,
you can install it in the same directory
structure but in their home directory
and we'll look there for it also.
So just a quick note,
while we're talking about Java JNI,
there's a few things to be aware of.
Some of the threading between
Java and... Our GUI is a Cocoa GUI.
And what happens is when you're
running a Cocoa application,
it actually...the app kit
thread is thread zero,
and that is the one that is
actually receiving all the
Cocoa events and stuff like that.
You don't want to block that.
And then, of course,
you don't want to block
the Java AWT thread.
So when calling between, say,
Cocoa and Java, there's a couple things
that you may want to use,
is when you're calling
Objective-C from the Java side of it,
you may want to use perform
selector on main thread.
And what that'll do is allow
you to dispatch an event to
the Objective-C app kit thread,
and then be able to let
your AWT thread return,
say,
if it was in response to button click,
or mouse down, or something like that.
If you wait until done,
you'll actually end up
blocking that thread,
so that may be something
you may not want to do.
And then when you're calling
back into Java from Cocoa,
you want to avoid running
Java on the app kit thread.
So to do that, you'd actually use
swings invoke and wait,
invoke later, or something like that,
or actually invoke and wait.
Invoke and wait is kind of
like the wait until done,
and that you might end up
hanging the app kit thread,
so be very cautious if you use that.
I should probably have had this
build on to put a couple Xs on those.
But specifically, if say you're using
JAWT or a Cocoa component,
JAWT paints on the AWT dispatch thread,
so if you're calling out to a native
Cocoa function or something like that,
don't block that AWT thread because
your application will sit there
and won't be responsive until it
comes back from the Cocoa app kit.
And then in Cocoa component,
it paints on the main Cocoa thread.
If you block that,
then all of a sudden you won't be getting
any events sent to your AWT from Cocoa.
So don't block that thread.
So, let me bring up Greg Bolsinga.
We're going to talk
about debugging in Xcode.
And, Greg.
I'm going to show you a little
bit about debugging in Xcode and
another little thing about 1.5.
I think it's pretty funny the
way that we have Java 1.5,
which Sun calls Tiger and
ROS is called Tiger.
Usually from us,
you'll never hear us call Java 1.5
Tiger because it's confusing for us,
too.
So first off,
I'm going to show you how to
debug a Java applet in Safari.
I had told—I believe it was
Ted that I could do this,
and he said,
"I didn't even know that." So we thought
it would be a good demo to have here.
So I'm using Tiger here.
I'm going to create a swing.
and the Tiger Demo Machine, Demo 1.
Thank you.
So I'm just going to create this
little example on the desktop.
What we have here is just a standard,
really simple swing application.
Swing applet, I'm sorry.
And what you can do is
create a custom executable,
like Ted had mentioned earlier.
You go to the project menu,
you create a custom executable.
We're going to call it Safari.
Choose it from the chooser.
And when you edit the
custom executable here,
you'll see that the executable
path is application Safari.
And to debug it,
you'd pick the Java debugger here.
This will launch Safari using
Xcode and hit our breakpoint.
This morning-- and I didn't want
to tempt the demo gods-- I was
thinking that other applications
that do run Java using WebKit could
also be debugged the same way.
But I didn't want to try any of those
other WebKit applications right now.
So I started up Safari using Xcode.
I set a breakpoint in
the paint method here.
And--
I'm going to open the
HTML file for my applet.
It's going to load the applet,
and now it hit the breakpoint.
You can see with standard Java debugging,
you get to see your thread stack here,
arguments,
you can examine these items here,
you can step through code,
or is it step over?
Sorry, that was by code.
And then you could just let it continue.
And then there's your
Java applet in Safari.
Oh, I got to repaint.
That's why.
Doesn't that make sense?
And so you can debug
Java applets in Safari if you
deploy your applets that way.
Another handy tool that some
people may not be totally
aware of is the Java plug-in.
For debugging, it's really useful.
When I'm debugging the
actual Java plug-in,
I use the Java plug-in control panel
a lot as well as Java debugging,
and you can even debug the
native AWT code in Safari.
But you could pass all sorts
of interesting things to the
"Runtime, when it's invoked,
using the Java runtime parameters here,
you can set the boot class path.
That's what I do because I'm
always replacing AWT or the plugin.
So you would apply it,
and then the next time you run Safari,
And you open that applet that I just ran,
you'll see that what we—oh,
I ran it from—you couldn't
see the console if I just
ran it from the command line,
of course.
So here you can see that the output,
you get to see where all
your classes are loaded from.
So I find it particularly useful
when I'm debugging if I have got
my boot class path set up wrong.
I use the verbose class loader
option for the Java plugin there.
So what I'm going to go
to now is the slides.
So like I showed you just now,
you select the Java debugger
in your custom executable and
you'd select Safari there.
And if you need to,
you can debug both Java and JNI code
simultaneously outside of Safari.
Because JNI cannot run in an applet
without certain security issues.
Typically you'd use the
Java debugger in Xcode.
And then you could attach to that
process from the command line
with GDB and see your stack there.
Alternately,
you could probably do it the other way
around if you launched your application
such that it could be debugged with JDB.
I'm going to talk about how you can
use the Java 1.5 preview in Xcode.
Xcode is an amazing tool
because it has so many options.
It's amazing what it can do.
Without even knowing about Java 1.5,
it can both build it and run it,
and that's very useful.
So some things to know about Java 1.5:
It's a preview.
It's not all complete yet.
So in Tiger, it's only in Tiger,
and in Tiger 1.4.2 is
still the default Java.
You can only run it
from the command line.
We didn't set it up so that
double-clickable .apps work.
Even double-clickable jars
don't do anything for 1.5.
So what you'd have to do is use the
full version path in the terminal.
Our Java is set up so that we could
have multiple Javas installed at once.
It's system, library frameworks,
Java VM frameworks, versions,
1.5 commands, and then Java.
And all the other
regular tools are there,
too, such as Java H, Java C, and JAR,
all those other types of tools are there.
And the new ones, PAC 200,
and I'm not sure of the other
ones off the top of my head.
Right now, you can only debug Java with
the JDB command line tool,
4.1.5 in Tiger.
We don't have the debugger
set up inside of Xcode yet.
It's a problem in the JDK, not in Xcode.
And AWT and Swing are
present in the 1.5 build,
but if you try to run any,
you'll find you'll quickly
crash in some kind of font code.
So unfortunately,
that's not yet ready for the preview,
but we'll have it soon.
So now I'm
show you how to use 1.5 in Xcode.
Go back to Xcode over here.
Close up that project I had going.
I'm going to use the new
Ant templates available in Xcode.
There's no Ant templates for Applets yet,
so that's why I wasn't able to…
I wasn't able to show
the swing applet in Ant.
So we're going to call this one Java 1.5.
These are in the release notes for 1.5,
but the way to get 1.5
to compile using Ant
First off,
we have to get it to compile using Ant.
And we use here, we use, um,
Fork = true.
So this is going to fork the
Java CE off into a new process.
and this is where you're going to
give the path to the executable.
Ant would seem to be versatile enough
that you can also use any version of
Java that you may have laying around.
I don't even know why it doesn't work.
So I have to type in the full path.
What I've done, and what if you do 1.5
development in the preview,
what you'll want to do is certainly
make a command line shortcut,
an alias in your
terminal to this command,
because it's quite long
to type in all the time.
"Especially without the command
line completion." So you would
type in the full path to the
executable in the build XML.
[Transcript missing]
Right now, this source here is a very
simple Hello World program,
and so I made a very complicated
I don't know why this worked before.
Oh, actually,
it's already in my clipboard, isn't it?
I made a very complicated
1.5 only Hello World.
We're using the generic string
array list to add Hello World here,
and we're using the for loop here.
I don't know what the
enhanced for loop is,
what I believe they call it.
And this is just to show you that I'm
going to be able to build using 1.5
in Xcode because this will not build.
This sample here will not
build in 1.4 because of the
generics in the odd for loop.
Choose build.
We are not having luck
with the demos today.
Thank you again.
So now we'll see that the build has
succeeded beyond all our beliefs.
What we'll make now is
a new custom executable.
So this is how you'll be
able to run 1.5 in Xcode.
So because it has all these
custom executables and you
can set the variable names,
you can even build 1.5
with Jam if you'd like to.
So once again,
I have to type in that path because
I can't figure out how to get...
See, the clipboard does work in Tiger.
So now we're going to run
it using 1.5 in Xcode,
and it's a terribly
exciting one that says,
I'm terribly sorry about that.
I should have remembered that.
Now you'll see that we
have yet another problem.
We did this this morning.
Well, we always have my favorite thing.
So we built this class
file here using Xcode,
and now I ran that 1.5 program using 1.5.
[Transcript missing]
So in theory, what we showed you is how
Xcode can help you with your
Java development on Mac OS X.
We've gone into things
that we've talked about,
the AMP that's coming
with the 1.5 and the 2.0.
We've talked about some of the
things like not quite cross-compiling
but targeting other platforms,
say J2ME.
AMP is very useful for that.
We talked about the application
server update and the 1.4.2 update
for the current Panther install.
With this,
I think we've gotten you guys enough
information to get you started,
probably enough to get you up
and running and asking questions.
Be sure to use some of these things.
One thing that we don't have up there
that's actually a very useful resource
is the Java developers mailing list.
If you go to list.apple.com,
join the Java.
You'll see the Java-dev mailing list.
This is an extremely active mailing list.
You're going to want to set up a
filter to put it into a folder for you.
Otherwise, it's going to fill up
your inbox rather quickly.
But the nice thing about it is you can
ask pretty much any question on there,
and there's usually somebody up around
the world who will be able to answer
it without too much -- too long.
And occasionally,
the Java engineers actually,
when they have time,
will lurk on the list,
and you'll get the --
[Transcript missing]